Identification of APC2, a homologue of the adenomatous polyposis coli tumour suppressor. polyposis coli. Multiple Roles of APC and its Therapeutic Implications in Colorectal Cancer. Adenomatous polyposis coliis widely accepted as a tumor suppressor gene highly mutated in colorectal cancers. Mutation and inactivation of this gene is a key and early event almost uniquely observed in colorectal tumorigenesis. Alterations in the APC gene generate truncated gene products, leading to activation of the Wnt signaling pathway and deregulation of multiple other cellular processes. It has been a mystery why most patients with CRC retain a truncated APC protein, but accumulating evidence suggest that these C terminally truncated APC proteins may have gain of function properties beyond the well-established loss of tumor suppressive function. Here, we will review the evidence for both the loss of function and the gain of function of APC truncations and how together they contribute to CRC initiation and progression. Functions of the APC tumor suppressor protein dependent and independent of canonical WNT signaling: implications for therapeutic targeting. The acquisition of biallelic mutations in the APC gene is a rate-limiting step in the development of most colorectal cancers and occurs in the earliest lesions. APC encodes a 312-kDa protein that localizes to multiple subcellular compartments and performs diverse functions. APC participates in a cytoplasmic complex that promotes the destruction of the transcriptional licensing factor β-catenin; APC mutations that abolish this function trigger constitutive activation of the canonical WNT signaling pathway, a characteristic found in almost all colorectal cancers. By negatively regulating canonical WNT signaling, APC counteracts proliferation, promotes differentiation, facilitates apoptosis, and suppresses invasion and tumor progression. APC further antagonizes canonical WNT signaling by interacting with and counteracting β-catenin in the nucleus. APC also suppresses tumor initiation and progression in the colorectal epithelium through functions that are independent of canonical WNT signaling. APC regulates the mitotic spindle to facilitate proper chromosome segregation, localizes to the cell periphery and cell protrusions to establish cell polarity and appropriate directional migration, and inhibits DNA replication by interacting directly with DNA. Mutations in APC are often frameshifts, insertions, or deletions that introduce premature stop codons and lead to the production of truncated APC proteins that lack its normal functions and possess tumorigenic properties. Therapeutic approaches in development for the treatment of APC-deficient tumors are focused on the inhibition of canonical WNT signaling, especially through targets downstream of APC in the pathway, or on the restoration of wild-type APC expression. The adenomatous polyposis colitumour - suppressor protein controls the Wnt signalling pathway by forming a complex with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta, axin / conductin and betacatenin. Structural basis of the Axin-adenomatous polyposis coli interaction. Axin and the adenomatous polyposis colitumor suppressor protein are components of the Wnt/Wingless growth factor signaling pathway. In the absence of Wnt signal, Axin and APC regulate cytoplasmic levels of the proto-oncogene beta-catenin through the formation of a large complex containing these three proteins, glycogen synthase kinase 3betaand several other proteins. Both Axin and APC are known to be critical for beta-catenin regulation, and truncations in APC that eliminate the Axin-binding site result in human cancers. A protease-resistant domain of Axin that contains the APC-binding site is a member of the regulators of G-protein signalingsuperfamily. The crystal structures of this domain alone and in complex with an Axin-binding sequence from APC reveal that the Axin-APC interaction occurs at a conserved groove on a face of the protein that is distinct from the G-protein interface of classical RGS proteins. The molecular interactions observed in the Axin-APC complex provide a rationale for the evolutionary conservation seen in both proteins. Therapeutic potential of targeting the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in colorectal cancer. Aberrant Wnt/β-catenin signaling has often been reported in different cancers, particularly colorectal cancer, and this signaling cascade is central to carcinogenesis. Approximately 80% of CRC cases harbor mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene, and half of the remaining cases feature mutations in the β-catenin gene that affect the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Unsurprisingly, the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway has potential value as a therapeutic target in the treatment of CRC. Several inhibitors of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway have been developed for CRC treatment, but so far no molecular therapeutic targeting this pathway has been incorporated into oncological practice. In this review, we discuss the role of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in CRC and its potential as a target of innovative therapeutic approaches for CRC. Therapeutic potential of targeting the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. The Wnt/β-catenin pathway is an important, dysregulated pathway in several tumor types, including pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Although the activation of this pathway is an important component of normal development, its aberrant activation resulting from activating or inactivating mutations in the CTNNB1 gene locus, or in the negative regulators AXIN and APC involving stabilization of β-catenin, and activation of target genes leads to a more aggressive phenotype, suggesting its potential value as a therapeutic target in the treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. A number of small molecule and biologic agents have now been developed for targeting this pathway. This review summarizes the current knowledge about the therapeutic potential of targeting the Wnt pathway with particular emphasis on preclinical/clinical studies in the treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Complex formation induces the rapid degradation of betacatenin. Understanding How Wnt Influences Destruction Complex Activity and β-Catenin Dynamics. Despite extensive research on the canonical Wnt signaling pathway, the mechanism by which this signal downregulates the activity of destruction complexes and inhibits β-catenin degradation remains controversial. In particular, recent attention has focused on two main competing mechanisms-inhibition of phosphorylation and inhibition of ubiquitination. Our combined experimental and theoretical analysis demonstrates that the disassembly of a fraction of the intracellular destruction complexes results in the partial inhibition of both β-catenin phosphorylation and ubiquitination. This inhibition is spatially patterned, consistent with the relocalization of some destruction complexes to the cellular membrane upon Wnt stimulation. Moreover, in contrast to the generally accepted view that the destruction complex is highly processive, our analysis supports a distributive model, in which β-catenin can dissociate from the complex between sequential phosphorylation events. Understanding the fundamental mechanism by which Wnt signaling is regulated provides a rational basis for tuning the pathway for scientific and therapeutic purposes. G-alpha subunit abundance and activity differentially regulate β-catenin signalling. -dependent manner. Hence G-alpha subunit regulation of β-catenin is context-dependent. Molecular regulation and pharmacological targeting of the β-catenin destruction complex. The β-catenin destruction complex is a dynamic cytosolic multiprotein assembly that provides a key node in Wnt signalling regulation. The core components of the destruction complex comprise the scaffold proteins axin and adenomatous polyposis coli and the Ser/Thr kinases casein kinase 1 and glycogen synthase kinase 3. In unstimulated cells, the destruction complex efficiently drives degradation of the transcriptional coactivator β-catenin, thereby preventing the activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Mutational inactivation of the destruction complex is a major pathway in the pathogenesis of cancer. Here, we review recent insights in the regulation of the β-catenin destruction complex, including newly identified interaction interfaces, regulatory elements and post-translationally controlled mechanisms. In addition, we discuss how mutations in core destruction complex components deregulate Wnt signalling via distinct mechanisms and how these findings open up potential therapeutic approaches to restore destruction complex activity in cancer cells. This article is part of a themed section on WNT Signalling: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Opportunities. To view the other articles in this section visit http://onlinelibrary. wiley. com/doi/10. 1111/bph. v174. 24/issuetoc. In colon carcinoma cells, loss of APC leads to the accumulation of betacatenin in the nucleus, where it binds to and activates the Tcf - 4 transcription factor). Functions of the APC tumor suppressor protein dependent and independent of canonical WNT signaling: implications for therapeutic targeting. The acquisition of biallelic mutations in the APC gene is a rate-limiting step in the development of most colorectal cancers and occurs in the earliest lesions. APC encodes a 312-kDa protein that localizes to multiple subcellular compartments and performs diverse functions. APC participates in a cytoplasmic complex that promotes the destruction of the transcriptional licensing factor β-catenin; APC mutations that abolish this function trigger constitutive activation of the canonical WNT signaling pathway, a characteristic found in almost all colorectal cancers. By negatively regulating canonical WNT signaling, APC counteracts proliferation, promotes differentiation, facilitates apoptosis, and suppresses invasion and tumor progression. APC further antagonizes canonical WNT signaling by interacting with and counteracting β-catenin in the nucleus. APC also suppresses tumor initiation and progression in the colorectal epithelium through functions that are independent of canonical WNT signaling. APC regulates the mitotic spindle to facilitate proper chromosome segregation, localizes to the cell periphery and cell protrusions to establish cell polarity and appropriate directional migration, and inhibits DNA replication by interacting directly with DNA. Mutations in APC are often frameshifts, insertions, or deletions that introduce premature stop codons and lead to the production of truncated APC proteins that lack its normal functions and possess tumorigenic properties. Therapeutic approaches in development for the treatment of APC-deficient tumors are focused on the inhibition of canonical WNT signaling, especially through targets downstream of APC in the pathway, or on the restoration of wild-type APC expression. Multiple Roles of APC and its Therapeutic Implications in Colorectal Cancer. Adenomatous polyposis coliis widely accepted as a tumor suppressor gene highly mutated in colorectal cancers. Mutation and inactivation of this gene is a key and early event almost uniquely observed in colorectal tumorigenesis. Alterations in the APC gene generate truncated gene products, leading to activation of the Wnt signaling pathway and deregulation of multiple other cellular processes. It has been a mystery why most patients with CRC retain a truncated APC protein, but accumulating evidence suggest that these C terminally truncated APC proteins may have gain of function properties beyond the well-established loss of tumor suppressive function. Here, we will review the evidence for both the loss of function and the gain of function of APC truncations and how together they contribute to CRC initiation and progression. Chromatin-associated APC regulates gene expression in collaboration with canonical WNT signaling and AP-1. gene occurs in a high percentage of colorectal tumors and is a central event driving tumor initiation in the large intestine. The APC protein performs multiple tumor suppressor functions including negative regulation of the canonical WNT signaling pathway by both cytoplasmic and nuclear mechanisms. Published reports that APC interacts with β-catenin in the chromatin fraction to repress WNT-activated targets have raised the possibility that chromatin-associated APC participates more broadly in mechanisms of transcriptional control. This screening study has used chromatin immunoprecipitation and next-generation sequencing to identify APC-associated genomic regions in colon cancer cell lines. Initial target selection was performed by comparison and statistical analysis of 3,985 genomic regions associated with the APC protein to whole transcriptome sequencing data from APC-deficient and APC-wild-type colon cancer cells, and two types of murine colon adenomas characterized by activated Wnt signaling. 289 transcripts altered in expression following APC loss in human cells were linked to APC-associated genomic regions. High-confidence targets additionally validated in mouse adenomas included 16 increased and 9 decreased in expression following APC loss, indicating that chromatin-associated APC may antagonize canonical WNT signaling at both WNT-activated and WNT-repressed targets. Motif analysis and comparison to ChIP-seq datasets for other transcription factors identified a prevalence of binding sites for the TCF7L2 and AP-1 transcription factors in APC-associated genomic regions. Our results indicate that canonical WNT signaling can collaborate with or antagonize the AP-1 transcription factor to fine-tune the expression of shared target genes in the colorectal epithelium. Future therapeutic strategies for APC-deficient colorectal cancers might be expanded to include agents targeting the AP-1 pathway. Here, we report the identification and genomic structure of APC homologues. Identification of a novel HLA-C*12 allele, HLA-C*12:221. HLA-C*12:221 differs from C*12:02:03 by a single nucleotide substitution at position 367 of exon 3. Identification of a novel HLA-A*33 allele, HLA-A*33:138. HLA-A*33:138 differs from A*33:03:01 by a single nucleotide substitution at position 523 of exon 3. Identification of a novel HLA-C*08 allele, HLA-C*08:01:20. HLA-C*08:01:20 differs from C*08:01:01 by a single nucleotide substitution at position 93 of exon 2. 